

# Schwinger Model
# Introduction
In particle physics, one burning question concerns the structure of matter. Matter is broken into small, fundamental, indivisible building blocks, like Lego pieces, which are called 'elementary particles'. Then, the basic interactions that govern those building blocks are analyzed. <br />
Today, there are many beliefs on how matter actually looks like: Are those building blocks the smallest possible pieces? Can you go further and peel layer after layer away similar to an onion? Is matter actually a tiny string of energy? These questions are far from being answered.<br />
However, particle physicists have found a model that has been remarkably successful in predicting most experimental results concerning the particles, phenomena, and interactions we see in the real world.  This model is called 'the Standard Model of Particle Physics', or SM for short, and was formulated in the 1960s. Under the SM, there are 18 kinds of particles, so 'types' of Lego pieces and they can come in certain variations, which in the Lego analogy would be color or stackability, resulting in 61 total pieces.  <br />
The elementary particle building blocks are six 'types' of quarks, which stick together in groups (three for example to form a proton or a neutron), three types of particles called 'neutrinos', and the particles electron, muon, and tau. They are distinguished due to the intrinsic properties they have, such as mass and charge, and the interactions they are involved in.
They all have their own anti-particle, which looks the same but has the opposite charge. Everything we see in the world is made out of a variation of those particles, from atoms to space radiation! <br />
The variations they can be found in depend on the intrinsic properties they possess, for example, each quark can have one of three types of charges, called 'color' charge, referred to as blue, red, or green (this has nothing to do with real colors, its just a name). But there's more!  The SM can describe three out of the four forces in the world and assigns each of those forces a unique, own type of particle, which mediates this interaction.  Those mediation particles are called bosons are the resulting required particles of the SM. An overview of all the types of elementary building blocks for matter and interaction is given in.<br />
As you probably know, two electrons repel each other. But why is that? In particle physics, we know that the force between them is mediated by a boson. In this case, the boson is a photon, which is nothing else than the tiniest unit (or 'quantum') of light. As crazy as it sounds, the electrons now exchange photons and as a result, they get pushed away from each other. You can think of it as two electrons shooting 'photon' billiard balls at each other, and therefore, they get pushed in the opposite direction.<br />
Fortunately, the SM can describe not only electron repulsion but close to every interaction in the world. <br />
It can describe Electromagnetism, which explains both electricity and magnetism, it can describe radioactive decay which is mediated by something called the weak force, and it explains why quarks like to stick together in groups, and why protons and neutrons stay together to form an atomic nucleus. This latter force is called the 'strong' force because while it only acts on a very small scale, it is $10^{38}$ times as strong as gravitation. By the way, where is gravitation? The SM does not yet include gravitation and has therefore not yet found a boson which is exchanged in the attraction of  masses. <br />
However, this is not the only deficit of the SM, so the SM is believed not to be the ultimate theory. Indeed, it falls short in explaining some phenomena such as 'dark energy' or  universe expansion and involves about twenty fundamental parameters, the values of which are not given by the model itself but have to be determined by experiment. <br />
The SM is rather believed to be a 'low-energy' approximation of the fundamental 'Theory of Everything', similar to the Newtonian theory, which is a low-energy approximation of Relativity. This low-energy approximation yields reliable predictions for interaction processes in the highest currently accessible energy scale of up to 200 GeV at collider facilities. Now, to find a complete model, the Standard Model has to be probed by experiments or simulations to determine in which direction it has to be extended. This can be done in a variety of experimental ways, e.g., at accelerators such as the one at Cern, in non-acceleration experiments such as the neutrino detector Kamiokande or by measuring observables in radioactive decay with high precision.<br />
Another way is to take a closer look at the theory underlying the SM and finding a way of simulating certain interactions or phenomena and comparing them to real-world effects.  
With the rise of quantum computers, a new, unique, and probably superior way of simulating theoretical predictions of the SM is possible. However, the theory underlying all the nice interactions and characterizations named above is based on quantum field theories, and a particle-dependent set of rules, confinements, and challenges. Those quantum field theories have to be broken down into simulatable models, and we have to abide by the characteristics imposed by the quantum computer we use. Unfortunately, the mathematics behind quantum field theory is tricky and burdensome, and not easy to summarize. To understand the potential and challenges of simulating such a quantum field theory, the notorious 'Schwinger model' is explained and implemented in the most simple terms. The Schwinger model is based on one of the named interactions, namely Electromagnetism, and therefore the quantum field theory called 'Quantum Electrodynamics'. To grasp this model, we'll need a set of prerequisites. <br />
# Wave-Particle Duality
If we look at matter at small scales (nanoscale), it does not behave like anything we have seen in classical mechanics.  It additionally behaves, as Feynman put it, in an un-commonsensly kind of way. That is, particles sometimes behave like localized particles, and sometimes like waves. For example, the electron was supposed to behave like a particle, which it sometimes does, but then suddenly it acts as if it was a wave all along, overlapping with other electron waves and exhibiting interference patterns. However, it is found in either state, as a localized particle or as a wave, never in both at the same time.<br /> So what exactly is it then? Broadly stated, it is neither. The bad news is that the interpretation of the so-called wave-particle duality is still heavily discussed and there is no clear answer, however, mathematically, we have a pretty good understanding. In the following, we look at the wave description of the particle.<br />
More precisely, the matter-wave,  
$$\Psi(x,t)$$, where $$x$$ is the position and $t$ is the time, completely specifies a quantum state, for example, an electron.<br />  Additionally, we can describe the change in time of the (non-relativistic) matter-wave using the so-called **Schrödinger equation**, again without understanding what exactly the interpretation of the wave is. This means that if we know what the wave-function looks like and know about the Schrödinger equation, we have the mathematical description of the quantum state AND can describe the temporal dynamics of the state. We want to go further now and look at an electron. We actually want to know the probability to find the electron at a certain position. The first problem we run into is that we deal with continuous variables, meaning that if we take out one position between $0$ and $1$, we have an infinite set of possibilities ($0.1$ is a position, but so is $0.01$, $0.001$, and so on). That means the probability of finding the particle at any exact location inside this interval is expected to be zero. This is why we do not search for a particle at an exact position, but rather inside an interval, so [0, 1], or more generally, [x, x+dx]. The probability associated with the interval is called the **probability density**.<br />
Now, we thus want to find a connection between probability density and our electrons wave function. On aspect about waves are their magnitude. So, if you think of a basic sine wave, it has peaks and valleys. The so-called **probability amplitude** is nothing else than the height or magnitude of the wave, which can also be negative and is a complex number. <br />Since our wave-function describes the full state, the probability of finding our electron inside a certain interval has to be connected to the wave functions properties somehow. Of course, the total probability is not allowed to change over time, because the probability to find the electron somewhere is always 100%. This brings **Borns rule** into play, which postulates one of the key quantum mechanical relations, namely:
$$ \text{probability density}= \vert\text{probability amplitude}\vert^2, $$ a postulate so important that it won Born half of the Nobel price in Physics.
